All right so this is a solution for homework from the error handling in all phases one and two section
of the course.
We've got no data downloaded here.
Let's go ahead and put it into a project folder.
So I have a folder here for homework.
I'm going to create a new copy of our project template give today's date.
You know it is already September and we're going to give it a name so let's call it homework DTL phases
one and two.
And here we've really got all of the file structure of folder structure that we need.
Let's copy this file into the original doc.
Once again we're not going to touch it here.
We're going to make a copy and put into prepared folder.
So if we open up now we can see that here we've got a lot of columns.
Quite a few.
And then we've got the three columns that we definitely need at the end of here and we've already looked
at the number of rows.
That's cool so let's commence this whole process.
What do we do first.
First of all we need to rename the file to see right so that we can open it in Excel Excel.
Here let's open it up open
and all files.
There it is.
So this brings up the text import wizard.
Of course it can be delimited.
It's going to be comma delimited.
Next.
Make sure that all of these are selected then it's like text.
Finish.
All right so all file Aldara is in the file is in Excel.
And now we can perform what we normally do is look for dollar amounts.
Knodell amounts here and all the data so that doesn't count because that's just it is.
We'll leave it as a text.
This one we're going to change into the correct format.
So this is good practice.
We're going to go to text to columns.
We're going to change this delimited no delimiter finish change date.
So here it looks like day or month day year so let's change that finish.
Good.
Now we need the correct format for the database.
The canonical format.
So we're going to go custom.
Why why why.
Well I'm MDD.
There we go.
So that's ready.
OK.
So this is our Excel file we can save it as a CSP file.
So I'll leave that on there.
Now we're going to call and save another one here.
Yes.
Be awesome.
Yes that's OK.
OK that's done.
So let's close that.
I don't have to say it again.
Don't worry.
There we go.
So now we can open up have a look.
Have a look here.
So the thing that we should notice right away probably like a quick caveat that this is the same as
what we did before we can see here that now new columns have appeared.
This is an empty column just another empty column so Excel has added empty columns here for us and that
is saving us from rows being eaten up by other rows and we talked about this in the course.
So that's just something to notice here.
What are we going to do now is we're going to start uploading the file right so we're going to go to
upload a dot on copy that and give it a name.
So that's how we're going to put our file.
Let's go get it.
There we go.
So now we can proceed to Sosias and launching Microsoft Visual Studio the shell.
OK.
So let's create a new project here.
Integration Services project Let's call this one a home.
We're e t l phases one and two.
Maybe let's expand that data flow task.
All right.
We're going to try to do this as quick as possible.
Want my time myself.
But first the simpler task of course I got it down to like 49 seconds I think that was pretty fast anyway
.
Floodwall source.
Yep obviously always you know a flat Passau is always need a destination.
And as we already know we're going to have two conditional splits.
Other transforms Where are all conditional splits because we're going to have to have them because we
want to take out bad records and take out records that don't have sufficient information.
Next we're going to flood the station.
That's where one type of error is going to go that's where the other type is going to go.
So everything's ready.
First we start with them source right.
So where is our folder.
There's a folder.
Go back here.
Create a new flat file connection manager browse look at looking for its history file.
There it is.
Take Scuola fire columns look through the columns as we can see those two empty columns have been indeed
added.
There are probably some shifts here but we don't really care.
This was more of a practice thing for us in the actual course.
Now we know how to deal with this automatically so it don't even bother about searching for them in
that specific window.
So here we're going to set everything to a thousand.
Hopefully it fits preview.
Once again you can check columns.
All right so here's another area.
Here's a new era which we didn't have in the course so doing this homework.
You probably freaks out when you saw this.
I'm sure you didn't.
I'm sure you were fine with it so what does it say.
It says that era at dataflow task this was like a surprise error for you.
Delphos task there is more than one data source column with the name name.
The data source code must names must be unique.
So what does that mean.
That means our data set has two columns of the same name.
So we're going to have to cancel this.
We're gonna have to go back to the data set and investigate.
Once again we're not touching our original data right so what are we going to do.
Now we're going to delete this because the upload failed and any changes that you make you have to make
in your prepared data so let's go ahead and have a look here.
So here you go.
Numbered gender title name name address so that's all problem.
They're the same.
We have to re.
We have to fix this.
We are in the prepared data folder so we can fix it right away.
In this yes we file in Notepad plus plus the first one here.
Natasha Nathan Chan innocence Valentine those are first names.
Second one is surnames so let's change this surname save.
That's right.
Just say that right.
Close.
Good.
Now we can take this copyright copy and we'll put in uploaded daughter.
OK.
I'm real curious how you went with that surprise there it was.
You probably went fine I'm sure.
Anyway.
So we get you a flat file source new.
Let's do this again.
This is what I mean when I say 70 percent of the time is done upload it because you have to redo so
much stuff.
Daughter prep prep soon.
In about 10 it takes qualified columns.
Good good.
Now let's have a look here we could have actually noticed that here but we weren't looking for it right
.
So name surname good.
Now all of this goes to a thousand awesome preview.
All right but see if it lets us create it now looking good.
OK let's connect conditional split.
So what are we going to do first in the course we first looked at.
Or rows that had insufficient data so let's go ahead and do the same here.
So this is going to be insufficient data and condition here is going to be that one of our columns is
empty one of the critical columns so let's use Lenn and look at all Criddle columns.
They here blood type sorites equals zero or so you can type these up yourself.
You don't have to drag them from there if you know them.
So every blood type.
Yep kilograms equals zero.
Or finally.
So which one Len.
Centimeters centimeters equals zero.
OK so the thing you should notice here is that because our critical columns are at the very end we're
going to have a bit of an overlap between errors well is insufficient data and errors where there is
a bad record.
And that's just because of the methodology that we're using but we'll talk about that when we get to
it.
So that's fine.
Insufficient data then we'll just see say check past.
OK so here we want to put everything not check possed insufficient data and put it in there.
Let's create this file right away.
It's going to be a delimited file browse.
So upload a daughter up.
No analysis right so we're going to
create a folder so that say upload errors and here we're going to create a file a new text document
.
Once again the date.
And then we're going to say in sufficient data.
Also we have to of course we have to look at the name of the file so fake names.
OK so is fix that up.
Fake fake names UK.
Insufficient data.
All right.
Maybe put this together.
Open it up.
Call the fire.
Call them names.
Columns advanced preview.
Good mappings.
Click the mappings.
OK so that's done now and this conditional split.
We're going to check for corrupt records using that methodology which we talked about.
So we're going to say sharing functions if condition L-N of.
All right.
So anything else shifts to the right.
This is going to be greater than zero or
Lenn centimeters is equal to.
Right.
So there's nothing in that call.
So the interesting thing here is that because we already check this condition then equal then scenarios
equals zero.
This is never going to be the case because all of these records with Lenn of sending me Jersey colza
are already in the insufficient data folder.
So that's what I meant when I said that we're going to have an overlap and that just means that we're
going to have to deal with those errors in that other file and yeah will once we have theirs and we
can then look at them and understand whether it's a corrupt record or it's just insufficient data.
But this happens sometimes.
So I'll put name again just say bad records.
So basically this condition is only going to pick up requisite to shift to the right.
OK.
And here we're going to say good records.
All right.
Let's connect this here I'm going to say good records.
Looks good.
And here we are going to see better records.
Let's create a new file here delimited.
OK.
Browse.
So we might even just copy that saves time and we'll call it bad records.
Select it takes Hell-Fire call names home.
Yep that's good.
That's all good looking good mappings looking good.
And D-B All right this the fun part of create a new connection table.
So what are you going to call table row fake names.
OK.
Whoops.
15 0 9 0 9.
As we usually do in identity.
Well this is going to be row number and then int identity.
All right.
Good.
So create the table check the mappings.
Looks good.
All right here.
I got to fix this up.
Default called page code page.
True.
All right so this is all ready to go.
Let's save it and let's launch it.
And I might just zoom in a little bit so we see how we going.
And so far so good.
We've got some insufficient data piling up here some bad records.
Which only includes Rose shifted to the right and the ones shipped to left here.
So as you remember there's about 100000 rows here we're about just past half way.
This is actually an interesting way to structure your data flow.
Everything going Dallam is straight through and into the writes bed records.
And then we go we actually have an error.
So we got that far eighty five thousand and something happened here.
All right so what happened let's have a look.
Pat package execution is go to execution results.
And so we've got the warnings.
Here's the arrow.
There you go.
So what does it say here.
Flood Plus flood file source outputs.
So the truncation road disposition on failed because truncation occurred.
And so that it tells you that the column was the address column.
All right well let's go back and fix this up before we fix it up though.
One thing we have to do is because this failed we have to go to our database
which is here and find this file so refresh fake names.
OK.
So I looked up thousand rows and now we know it failed so we're going to have to redo it.
So right away let's get rid of the dot in this file We're going to truncate table and execute.
So we got rid of the data in the file so it was in the table if we select the €2000 is nothing because
obviously we're going to upload we want we don't want duplicate.
Very important to do that.
All right cool.
So that is going to have to be rerun.
We know that the problem is in the address column.
So let's go ahead and open this up.
We remember that it's flat file connection manager one let's find it here and here we're going to have
to go to advanced address and change this to let's say 5000.
Now at the same time I wouldn't share an extra trick here.
We know that address can be 5000 can even be a thousand symbols.
That's just ridiculous.
It can be a proper address something is wrong.
So we're going to add a next condition into our bad record so bad records are here.
We're going to say that we want a thing with the address which is too long to also be considered bad
record.
So here we're going to add another condition we're going to say or Lenn of as find that column.
So we don't have to type it up.
Address right is greater.
Let's say what's reasonable for an address 10 20 30 maybe 100.
So you think over 200 symbols for analysis definitely wrong.
And we want to exclude it so click OK.
So what will happen will happen now is that the you know we need to update the source and the connection
manager.
Ok cool.
So we want to just make sure that everything is good.
All right.
So what will happen now is that the comb will be read or that record will be read by the flat file source
.
It will go past this.
It won't go past is here we go into the air so it won't add up and up in the database.
And that is just an example of how you can add your own conditions into these conditional splits.
You might want to take that address and actually put into different file.
You can also do that you can add any conditions that you like that are governed by the knowledge you
have of the data set.
So that's all good.
Let's go ahead and save that and run it again and hopefully this time it will run better.
So once again let's zoom in
and we're coming near the end so there we go.
Everything looks good.
Awesome.
So ninety nine thousand seven hundred thirty one five bad records.
And we can probably find our very long address in here as well.
So before we do that let's go and do the main thing we have to do we have to stop the debugging process
.
Now we have to go to control flow and disable is doubtful to us.
And we actually should give it a name probably.
But I won't do that now.
So now if I go to fake names There's my daughter which is good.
And now let's go quickly have a look at what happened here and now says upload errors.
So this is all bad records.
So way here should be the very long address.
There it is.
Remember those and around 85000 So there's a long address.
What happened here just a lot of spaces just some some problem occurred and a lot of spaces ended up
in this column and that's why it's so very easy to fix just get rid of the spaces.
Once again you do need to verify these all these things if you're going to make sure you put the data
back in then these ones some some shifts occurred and so on.
Like we do talked about Tech's qualifiers a lot before sort of won't go back to the files you want to
investigate each one separately.
Go back to the whole file and you find that row number understand what happened.
And insufficient data.
So here we've got quite a lot of rows which includes both insufficient data and corrupted records shifted
to the left.
And once again you might.
You know you've got to you've got the numbers here.
So actually some of them don't have the numbers like this one actually doesn't have a number and you
can and you can Silversea it for them.
And what happened or send it back to the correct person.
But basically this is our e t l phases 1 and 2 done as you could see we had a few errors and we were
able to deal with them properly.
Ok so I trust you went well with that homework and I look forward to seeing you back inside the course
.
Until next time happy analyzing